Cleanup of finite types (#1166)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/univalent-combinatorics/finite-connected-components.lagda.md

open import foundation.homotopies
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.mere-equality
open import foundation.mere-equivalences
open import foundation.propositional-extensionality
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.set-truncations
open import foundation.sets
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
open import foundation.univalence
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import univalent-combinatorics.dependent-pair-types
open import univalent-combinatorics.equality-finite-types
open import univalent-combinatorics.finite-types
open import univalent-combinatorics.image-of-maps
open import univalent-combinatorics.standard-finite-types
```

</details>

## Idea

A type is said to have
{{#concept "finitely many connected components" Agda=has-finitely-many-components}}
if its [set truncation](foundation.set-truncations.md) is a
[finite type](univalent-combinatorics.finite-types.md).

## Definitions

### Types with finitely many connected components

```agda
has-finite-connected-components-Prop : {l : Level} → UU l → Prop l

> has-finite-connected-components-Prop A =

Reviewer: Doesn't "finitely many connected components" read better than "finite connected components"? The latter phrase seems to suggest that the connected component is finite. If a connected component of a type is finite, then it is contractible.

I think I'd prefer `has-finitely-many-components` or `has-finitely-many-connected-components`, but I'm fine with dropping "connected" here.

Author: Indeed! Thanks for pointing it out, this mistake was present in the file on pi-types which I overwrote this file with. Regarding dropping "connected", as far as I can recall there is little precedence for speaking of "components" of a type, so I'm inclined to keep the extra adjective.

Reviewer: Ok, we can keep the adjective.

While we're at it, let's also change the filename to `finitely-many-connected-components`

Author: > While we're at it, let's also change the filename to `finitely-many-connected-components`

Just did :)

  is-finite-Prop (type-trunc-Set A)

has-finite-connected-components : {l : Level} → UU l → UU l
has-finite-connected-components A =
  type-Prop (has-finite-connected-components-Prop A)

number-of-connected-components :
  {l : Level} {X : UU l} → has-finite-connected-components X → ℕ
number-of-connected-components H = number-of-elements-is-finite H

mere-equiv-number-of-connected-components :
  {l : Level} {X : UU l} (H : has-finite-connected-components X) →
  mere-equiv
    ( Fin (number-of-connected-components H))
    ( type-trunc-Set X)
mere-equiv-number-of-connected-components H =
  mere-equiv-is-finite H
```

> ### Types with connected components of a certain finite cardinality

Reviewer: This title suggests the wrong meaning: that the components have finite cardinality. Instead, what is meant here is that the type of connected components has finite cardinality.

```suggestion
### Types with a finite type of connected components of a specified cardinality
```

has-cardinality-components k A =
  type-Prop (has-cardinality-components-Prop k A)
```

## Properties

### Having finitely many connected components is invariant under equivalences

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (e : A ≃ B)
  where

  has-finite-connected-components-equiv :
    has-finite-connected-components A → has-finite-connected-components B
  has-finite-connected-components-equiv =
    is-finite-equiv (equiv-trunc-Set e)

  has-finite-connected-components-equiv' :
    has-finite-connected-components B → has-finite-connected-components A
  has-finite-connected-components-equiv' =
    is-finite-equiv' (equiv-trunc-Set e)
```

### Any 0-connected type has finitely many connected components

```agda
has-finite-connected-components-is-0-connected :
  {l : Level} {A : UU l} →
  is-0-connected A → has-finite-connected-components A
has-finite-connected-components-is-0-connected = is-finite-is-contr
```

> ### Sets with finite connected components are finite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sets with finitely many connected components are finite
```

```agda
is-finite-has-finite-connected-components :
  {l : Level} {A : UU l} →
  is-set A → has-finite-connected-components A → is-finite A
is-finite-has-finite-connected-components H =
  is-finite-equiv' (equiv-unit-trunc-Set (_ , H))
```

> ### Dependent sums of types with finite connectected components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dependent sums of types with finitely many connected components
```

> The total space of a family of types with finite connected components has finite
> connected components when the base is 0-connected and its based loop spaces have
> finite connected components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The total space of a family of types with finitely many connected components has finitely many
connected components when the base is `0`-connected and its based loop spaces have
finite connected components.
```

Link to loop spaces?
